RQ1: Most frequent contracts for ML APIs (§3.1.1)
Finding:
1. Constraint check on single arguments of an API.
2. Order of API calls that become a requirement eventually.
Actionable Insight:
This is good news because the software engineering (SE) community can employ existing contract mining approaches to also mine contracts for ML APIs. However, there might be a need to combine behavioral and temporal contract mining approaches that have been independently developed thus far.

---

RQ4: ML API contracts that are commonly violated occur in earlier ML pipeline stages (§3.4)
Finding:
ML API contract violations happen mostly in earlier phases of ML pipelines.
Actionable Insight:
A verification system with ML contract knowledge can explain whether a bug in the ML system that used those APIs stemmed from an API contract breach.

---

RQ3: The absence of precise error messages (§3.1.2)
Finding:
System failures lead to imprecise error messages, making contract comprehension and violation detection more challenging.
Actionable Insight:
Since domain experts can understand the challenging ML contracts (§3.3), encoding this knowledge as contracts can enable improved debugging mechanisms.

---

RQ1: ML APIs require several type checking contracts and interdependency between behavioral and temporal contracts (§3.1.1 and Table 6)
Finding:
ML APIs require special type-checking and behavioral-temporal interdependent contracts.
Actionable Insight:
Programming methodology and tools for design-by-contract should include sufficient expressiveness to handle these additional types of contracts seen in ML APIs.

An example of an IC-1 contract is given in SO post 6, which shows an ML
API users trying to use the TensorFlow API random_shuffle() to shuffle a
Tensor, a, with some set seed value. One of the solutions mentioned in the
accepted answer says that to do that, one should specify the argument seed
with the desired value, e.g., the argument seed gets the value 42. The root
cause of this contract violation is that acceptable input value is not supplied
to (the random_shuffle()) method.
Inter-argument contracts (IC-2): IC-2 contracts involve more than one
argument to an API method, possibly using comparisons or logical expressions.
For example, in SO post 4, the matmul() API from TensorFlow requires that
the type of the second argument should match the type of the first argument.
A comparison expression can express this contract, so it belongs to IC-2. The
root cause of this contract violation is that the (matmul()) API is missing
input value/type dependency between arguments. Another example 7
for this category is nn.softmax_cross_entropy_with_logits(), an API from
TensorFlow, which requires that the logits and labels arguments must have the same shape (i.e., [batch_size, num_classes])

Eventually (F): Eventually contracts are AMO contracts where the ordering
